README.md, before:

# DepChain - Highly Dependable Systems (2024-2025)

## Overview
DepChain is a simplified permissioned blockchain system with high dependability guarantees. This project is developed iteratively in two stages:
- **Stage 1**: Focuses on the consensus layer, specifically implementing a version of the Byzantine Read/Write Epoch Consensus algorithm.
- **Stage 2**: Targets the transaction processing layer.


## Features
- Static system membership with a pre-defined leader.
- Use of Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) for secure identity verification.
- Implementation of the Byzantine Read/Write Epoch Consensus algorithm.
- Support for Byzantine behavior among blockchain members.
- UDP-based network communication with custom abstraction layers.
- Client interface for submitting transactions (string appends).

## Project Structure
```
DepChain/
│── src/                        # Source code
│   ├── main/
|   |   ├── java/
│   |   |   ├── client/         # Client library for submitting transactions
│   |   |   ├── consensus/      # Byzantine Read/Write Epoch Consensus implementation
│   |   |   ├── crypto/         # Cryptographic operations using Java Crypto API
│   |   |   ├── networking/     # UDP-based communication and message handling
│   |   |   ├── util/           # Utility classes and helper functions
|   |   ├── resources/          # Cryptographic keys and configuration files
│── test/                       # Automated tests (JUnit)
│   ├── java/
│   |   ├── network/            # Network reliability tests
│── README.md                   # Project description and usage guide
```

## Installation and Setup
### Prerequisites
- Java Development Kit (JDK) 17+
- Maven

### Build and Run
To build the project:
```sh
mvn clean install
```
To run the system:
```sh
mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="<CLASS>"
```
Replace `<CLASS>` with the desired main class, e.g., `main.java.sec.client.Client`.

If you need to pass arguments to the main class, use the `-Dexec.args` parameter:
```sh
mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="<CLASS>" -Dexec.args="arg1 arg2"
```

To run the server:
```sh
mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="depchain.blockchain.BlockchainMember" -Dexec.args="1 8001"
```

To run the client:
```sh
mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="depchain.client.DepChainClient" -Dexec.args="5 9001"
```

### Configuration
Environment variables can be set in the `.env` file located in the root directory. The following variables are available:
- `CONFIG_FILE_PATH`: Path to the configuration file.
- `KEYS_FOLDER_PATH`: Path to the folder containing cryptographic keys.
- `DEBUG`: Enable/disable debug mode.

### Formatting

To format the code according to the project's style guide:
```sh
mvn formatter:format
```

## Testing
To run unit and integration tests:
```sh
mvn test
```
The test suite includes:
- Functional correctness tests for the consensus algorithm.
- Network reliability tests.
- Byzantine behavior simulations.

### Usage
You can run each behavior test individually by changing the `CONFIG_FILE_PATH` environment variable in the `.env` file for the desired configuration file located in the `src/main/java/resources/config/` directory.

Afterwards, run the test script:
```sh
python3 test.py
```

NOTE: you might need to first install `tmux`:
```sh
sudo apt install tmux -y
```

Then you can interact with the blockchain as a client:

![Client](./images/test_tmux.png)

## Design Considerations
- **Safety & Liveness**: The system ensures safety under all conditions and guarantees liveness only if the leader remains correct.
- **Client-Consensus Integration**: The client submits requests that are transformed into consensus proposals.
- **Security**: Cryptographic operations ensure message authentication and integrity.

## Future Work (Stage 2)
- Implementing leader election and dynamic membership.
- Expanding transaction processing capabilities.
- Enhancing fault tolerance and security measures.

## Contributors
- Guilherme Leitão - ist199951
- Simão Sanguinho - ist1102082
- José Pereira - ist1103252

## Report

To build the report, run the following command:
```sh
cd report
pdflatex report.tex
```

## References
[1] Introduction to Reliable and Secure Distributed Programming. 2nd Edition.
[2] Springer Computer Science Proceedings Guidelines: https://www.springer.com/gp/computer-science/lncs/conference-proceedings-guidelines

Commit message:

docs: add group number to README

README.md, after:

# DepChain - Highly Dependable Systems (2024-2025)

## Overview
DepChain is a simplified permissioned blockchain system with high dependability guarantees. This project is developed iteratively in two stages:
- **Stage 1**: Focuses on the consensus layer, specifically implementing a version of the Byzantine Read/Write Epoch Consensus algorithm.
- **Stage 2**: Targets the transaction processing layer.


## Features
- Static system membership with a pre-defined leader.
- Use of Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) for secure identity verification.
- Implementation of the Byzantine Read/Write Epoch Consensus algorithm.
- Support for Byzantine behavior among blockchain members.
- UDP-based network communication with custom abstraction layers.
- Client interface for submitting transactions (string appends).

## Project Structure
```
DepChain/
│── src/                        # Source code
│   ├── main/
|   |   ├── java/
│   |   |   ├── client/         # Client library for submitting transactions
│   |   |   ├── consensus/      # Byzantine Read/Write Epoch Consensus implementation
│   |   |   ├── crypto/         # Cryptographic operations using Java Crypto API
│   |   |   ├── networking/     # UDP-based communication and message handling
│   |   |   ├── util/           # Utility classes and helper functions
|   |   ├── resources/          # Cryptographic keys and configuration files
│── test/                       # Automated tests (JUnit)
│   ├── java/
│   |   ├── network/            # Network reliability tests
│── README.md                   # Project description and usage guide
```

## Installation and Setup
### Prerequisites
- Java Development Kit (JDK) 17+
- Maven

### Build and Run
To build the project:
```sh
mvn clean install
```
To run the system:
```sh
mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="<CLASS>"
```
Replace `<CLASS>` with the desired main class, e.g., `main.java.sec.client.Client`.

If you need to pass arguments to the main class, use the `-Dexec.args` parameter:
```sh
mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="<CLASS>" -Dexec.args="arg1 arg2"
```

To run the server:
```sh
mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="depchain.blockchain.BlockchainMember" -Dexec.args="1 8001"
```

To run the client:
```sh
mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="depchain.client.DepChainClient" -Dexec.args="5 9001"
```

### Configuration
Environment variables can be set in the `.env` file located in the root directory. The following variables are available:
- `CONFIG_FILE_PATH`: Path to the configuration file.
- `KEYS_FOLDER_PATH`: Path to the folder containing cryptographic keys.
- `DEBUG`: Enable/disable debug mode.

### Formatting

To format the code according to the project's style guide:
```sh
mvn formatter:format
```

## Testing
To run unit and integration tests:
```sh
mvn test
```
The test suite includes:
- Functional correctness tests for the consensus algorithm.
- Network reliability tests.
- Byzantine behavior simulations.

### Usage
You can run each behavior test individually by changing the `CONFIG_FILE_PATH` environment variable in the `.env` file for the desired configuration file located in the `src/main/java/resources/config/` directory.

Afterwards, run the test script:
```sh
python3 test.py
```

NOTE: you might need to first install `tmux`:
```sh
sudo apt install tmux -y
```

Then you can interact with the blockchain as a client:

![Client](./images/test_tmux.png)

## Design Considerations
- **Safety & Liveness**: The system ensures safety under all conditions and guarantees liveness only if the leader remains correct.
- **Client-Consensus Integration**: The client submits requests that are transformed into consensus proposals.
- **Security**: Cryptographic operations ensure message authentication and integrity.

## Future Work (Stage 2)
- Implementing leader election and dynamic membership.
- Expanding transaction processing capabilities.
- Enhancing fault tolerance and security measures.

## Contributors
- Guilherme Leitão - ist199951
- Simão Sanguinho - ist1102082
- José Pereira - ist1103252

Group 12 - 2024/2025

Project developed for the Highly Dependable Systems course at Instituto Superior Técnico, University of Lisbon.

## Report

To build the report, run the following command:
```sh
cd report
pdflatex report.tex
```

## References
[1] Introduction to Reliable and Secure Distributed Programming. 2nd Edition.
[2] Springer Computer Science Proceedings Guidelines: https://www.springer.com/gp/computer-science/lncs/conference-proceedings-guidelines
